Graphics chapter (#67)
oetiker/lshort: src/graphic.tex

>     -- (15:4)
>     -- (0, 2);
> \end{tikzpicture}
> %$ consider maybe (1, 2) as the final point above, since the asymmetry then
> %$ allows the reader to identify the origin (0, 0), the direction of drawing,
> %$ and the direction of increasing y (since SVG et al have y increasing
> %$ downwards). Alternatively, changing the polar point to say (30:3) might
> %$ achieve the same thing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -- (15:4)
    -- (1, 2);
\end{tikzpicture}
```

\tikz{\draw (0, 0) -- (1,1);}
\end{example}
If you want to close the shape you are drawing, use \cargv{cycle} instead of

> repeating the first point. In addition to being clearer about the intention,
> it also produces a better looking line connection.
> %$ 'a properly mitred join'? Impressive example, by the way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
repeating the first point. In addition to being clearer about the intention,
it also produces a better looking line connection (a properly mitred join, as they say).
```

\end{tikzpicture}
\end{example}

> The \csi{draw} command is just a shortcut to the more general \csi{path} command.
> The latter accepts a path in the same way, but
> %$ 'It' is ambiguous; I think you are referring to the \path command.
> an action
> %$ 'must' and 'optional' don't go together; some or other action is mandatory?
> must be specified as an argument. The \csi{draw} command simply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \csi{draw} command is just a shortcut to the more general \csi{path} command.
The latter accepts a path in the same way, but an action
must be specified in square brackets. The \csi{draw} command simply
```

\end{example}
\end{chktexignore}

Normal \LaTeX{} input may be displayed inside so-called nodes. To create
a node, use the
\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{node}[«{}» («\bs carg{name}») at «\bs carg{coordinate}» {«\bs carg{input}»};: c]
\end{lscommand}

> %$ Standard English would be 'coordinates' (above & below), a coordinate being a
> %$ single scalar component of a point, but Tantau does say 'coordinate'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

\section{Curves and Shapes}

So far we have always used \ltx|--| to connect points. However,
this is not the only way. For example, if you wanted to only use horizontal and
vertical lines, you could specify \ltx/-|/ or \ltx/|-/ (according to preferred
order) as the connection between points.
\begin{example}
\tikz{\draw (0, 0) |- (2, 1);}
\tikz{\draw (0, 0) -| (2, 1);}
\end{example}

> If you want to create curved lines, the simplest way is to use \ltx{to}
> between points. It works the same as \ltx{--}, but you can provide an optional
> argument, with \cargv{in} and \cargv{out} keys, to define the angles of
> the connection.%$'terminal angles'?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to create curved lines, the simplest way is to use \ltx{to}
between points. It works the same as \ltx{--}, but you can provide an optional
argument, with \cargv{in} and \cargv{out} keys, to define the terminal angles of
the connection.
```

\tikzset{baseline} \vspace{-1cm} %!hide
\tikz{\draw (0, 0)
  to[out=90, in=-90, looseness=0.5] (2, 0);}
\tikz{\draw (0, 0)
  to[out=90, in=-90, looseness=2] (2, 0);}
\vspace{-1cm} %!hide
\end{example}
Often it might be easier to specify relative angles, using the \cargv{bend
  left} and \cargv{bend right} keys. If no angle is provided, a default value is
used.
\begin{example}[vertical_mode, examplewidth=0.8\linewidth]
\tikz{\draw (0, 0) to[bend left] (2, 0);}
\tikz{\draw (0, 0) to[bend right=90] (2, 0);}
\end{example}

If you need even finer control over the curves you, can use a
\ltx{.. controls ..} connection to specify a Bézier curve with one

> %$ Bézier seems to work (I had no idea). Should we be using B\'ezier, or is that
> %$ so thirty years ago?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
%$ Bézier seems to work (I had no idea). Should we be using B\'ezier, or is that
%$ so thirty years ago?
```
Since we are all utf8 now, this is no problem, it was even ok back in latin1 days.

\tikz{\draw (0, 0) circle[x radius=2, y radius=0.5];}
\end{example}
Many more shapes are available, such as \ltx{arc}, \ltx{parabola} or \ltx{sin}.

> Be sure to check out the documentation for the specifics of their use.
> %$ provide the reference again? it's been a while since we last saw it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to check out the documentation\cite{pack:pgf} for the specifics of their use.
```

\end{example}

Now, let's turn our attention to nodes. By default, a node's boundary is not
drawn, but you can pass \cargv{draw} and \cargv{fill}, optionally set to a
colour, to reveal it.
\begin{example}
\tikz{\node[draw] (0, 0)
  {Some Text};}
\tikz{\node[fill=red] (0, 0)
  {Some Text};}
\end{example}
By default, all nodes are rectangles, but they can be changed to circles by
passing the \cargv{circle} key to their options.
\begin{example}
\tikz{\node[draw, circle]
  (0, 0) {Some text};}
\end{example}

If you want to place multi-line text inside a node, you have to specify the

> \cargv{align} key; without it, new lines are ignored. Possible values %$ newlines?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\cargv{align} key; without it, new lines are ignored. Possible values
```

have unintended consequences. A more robust way of changing dimensionless
values is the \cargv{x} and \cargv{y} keys.
\begin{example}
\tikz[x=1in, y=1in]{\draw
  (0, 0) -- (1, 0.5);}
\tikz[x=1em, y=10ex]{\draw
  (0, 0) -- (1, 0.5);}
\end{example}

You can actually specify three-dimensional coordinates when drawing pictures.
By default, the third coordinate is interpreted as a vector pointing \(45\)
degrees to the bottom left and is a bit shorter.\footnote{Formally,
\((0, 0, 1)\) is  the same as \((-0.385, -0.385)\)).}
This gives the effect of a parallel (or axonometric) projection.
\begin{example}[vertical_mode, examplewidth=0.85\linewidth]
\begin{tikzpicture}[scale=2]
  \draw (0, 0, 0) -- (0, 0, 1) -- (0, 1, 1) --
    (0, 1, 0) -- cycle;
  \draw (1, 0, 0) -- (1, 0, 1) -- (1, 1, 1) --
    (1, 1, 0) -- cycle;
  \draw (0, 0, 0) -- (1, 0, 0) (0, 0, 1) -- (1, 0, 1)
    (0, 1, 1) -- (1, 1, 1) (1, 1, 0) -- (0, 1, 0);
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{example}
Length and direction can be changed by using the \cargv{z} key. %$ no example

Sometimes, it may be easier to specify a path by using coordinates relative to
the previous point instead of absolute ones. To do so, prepend \ltx{++} to the

> coordinate, which will be interpreted as the previous specified point with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coordinate, which will be interpreted as the previous specified point plus
```

> coordinate added. %$ 'as the previous point plus this vector'?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this vector.
```
